.\"  Copyright (C) 2007-2012 Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation.
.\"  Written by Ryusuke Konishi <konishi.ryusuke@lab.ntt.co.jp>
.\"
.TH MKFS.F2FS 8 "August 2012" "f2fs-tools version 1.0"
.SH NAME
mkfs.f2fs \- create an F2FS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkfs.f2fs
[
.B \-a
.I heap-based-allocation
]
[
.B \-l
.I volume-label
]
[
.B \-o
.I overprovision-ratio-percentage
]
[
.B \-s
.I log-based-#-of-segments-per-section
]
[
.B \-z
.I #-of-sections-per-zone
]
.I device
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkfs.f2fs
is used to create a f2fs file system (usually in a disk partition).
\fIdevice\fP is the special file corresponding to the device (e.g.
\fI/dev/sdXX\fP).
.PP
The exit code returned by
.B mkfs.f2fs
is 0 on success and 1 on failure.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-a " heap-based-allocation"
Specify 1 or 0 to enable/disable heap based block allocation policy.
If the value is equal to 1, each of active log areas are initially
assigned separately according to the whole volume size.
The default value is 1.
.TP
.BI \-l " volume-label"
Specify the volume label to the partition mounted as F2FS.
.TP
.BI \-o " overprovision-ratio-percentage"
Specify the percentage over the volume size for overprovision area. This area
is hidden to users, and utilized by F2FS cleaner. The default percentage is 5%.
.TP
.BI \-s " log-based-#-of-segments-per-section"
Specify the log-based number of segments per section. A section consists of
multiple consecutive segments, and is the unit of garbage collection.
The default number is 0, which means one segment is assigned to a section.
.TP
.BI \-z " #-of-sections-per-zone"
Specify the number of sections per zone. A zone consists of multiple sections.
F2FS allocates segments for active logs with separated zones as much as possible.
The default number is 1, which means a zone consists of one section.
.SH AUTHOR
This version of
.B mkfs.f2fs
has been written by Jaegeuk Kim <jaegeuk.kim@samsung.com>.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B mkfs.f2fs
is available from http://sourceforge.net/projects/f2fs-tools/.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkfs (8).
